 ---
    title: "Creating a Chatbot... No Coding Experience Required" # replace with the title of your post, a short catchy description to entice readers
    author: AUTHOR_NAME # the author value should match the 'title' value of your contributor file located here /gh-pages/_contributors. If you do not have a contributor file, please feel free to make one or contact one of our team members to assist you.
    categories: # delete the categories that do not apply and keep at least one
      - Community
      - Technical
    tags: # add 1-4 lowercase tags that are relevant to your post, ex: r, python, genomics, workflows
      - womeninstem
      - python
      - chatbots
      - beginnerscode
    ---
    
    Throughout the past year, current generation witnessed a large portion of our lives turn digital with the spread of Covid-19. School days turned into zoom schedules and paper turned into Word documents. With this unprecedented transformation into a virtual world, I wanted to understand the basis of what keeps us connected: code. When a peer introduced me to Girls Who Code at Fred Hutch, it seemed like the perfect opportunity to jump into this limitless area. Girls Who Code program offered through Fred Hutch is an opportunity that provides girls near the Seattle area the opportunity to learn how to code and what it can be applied to with no previous coding knowledge required, perfect for curious minds like mine. Not only did it teach me the basics of coding, but it introduced me to an amazing group of intelligent girls and professionals in the STEM field. Although we learned and experimented with code in Python, the material taught could still be applied to any coding syntax. Within this club, girls were split into three groups to brainstorm and code three unique chatbots: a meme bot, a book suggester, and a music suggester. In collaboration with my team members Ashley, Gina, and Jillian, we created a book chatbot that would suggest book titles and authors based on user input. 
 
 Although a book suggestion chatbot may not seem as exciting and thrilling as a meme bot, it seemed like a perfect topic for two reasons. First off, this topic could apply to real-life situations such as libraries or bookstores and help people find new books. Second, it was simple enough to give room to experiment with coding and broad enough to advance the chatbot and incorporate more code as our knowledge expanded. The first version of the chatbot consisted of simple print statements that did not leave a lot of room for an individualized experience for each user. Later on, we figured out how to not only incorporate user input but also create outputs that would correspond with user input. As our understanding of code grew, the complexity of the chatbot’s code grew with it.

 Creating a chatbot or any type of code can seem intimidating at first, it is not as hard as it looks as long as you have access to the right resources. Throughout my coding experience, I had the help of not only my peers and the Girls Who Code tutorials, but also the help of experienced coders and facilitators that would help with anything from brainstorming to figuring out the code itself. I learned that it was okay to mess up, and I did not need to memorize all of the different commands or script in order to code successfully. Sometimes, it's okay to rely on google to look up the syntax, or even analyze other pieces of code. Within my chatbot, I wanted to implement a randomizing factor that would allow book suggestions to be different for every experience. The line of code that allowed the chatbot to randomize its outputs was actually from a superpower/scientist generator used at the beginning of the Girls Who Code session to introduce us to code. Another thing I learned was to not be afraid to ask questions! I learned just as much through asking specific questions or how to code a certain function as I did through the tutorials and slideshows presented.
Just like writing an essay, it can help to not only have the goal of your project in mind but to create a roadmap to guide yourself through creating the code. Creating a flowchart of the end goal of the code helps keep everything in order and personally helped a lot with if statements. Another thing to keep in mind when coding is to experiment! You can accomplish so much more or advance your code if you go in without expectations of perfection. Speaking from personal experience, it can seem scary to go through and change some of the code with the fear of messing up the entire project. 

Here are a few tips to make editing and revising code a little easier on your mind:
- Saving a copy of the pre-edited code -- you can save it to a personal folder with all other drafts to look back on. This helps knowing your code won't be gone forever!
- Copy-pasting sections of code and use hashtags to turn bits of code or ideas still in the works into lines the program skips over. If you are ever are stuck on a section of code and cannot quite figure it out, this is a great method that will enable you to focus on another area without affecting other pieces of code.

 I first went into coding with intimidation and fear of failure. It was simply an activity I wanted to see if I could do, but I was heavily hesitant. In the end, I came out with a community of girls like me who want to expand their horizons. I met many active thinkers, creators, and intelligent people throughout this experience who not only helped me learn how to code, but also grow. This opportunity also gave me a new interest and introduced me to the world of coding. It taught me all of the practicalities and how I could utilize code within my life. Throughout this experience, I learned how to turn print statements into a book suggester with conditionals, if statements, and functions. Coding is definitely a learning process, but it is a completely attainable skill with the right resources and a little faith.
