---
title: "Coop Customer Survey" # replace with the title of your post, a short catchy description to entice readers
author: The Coop Team # the author value should match the 'title' value of your contributor file located here /gh-pages/_contributors. If you do not have a contributor file, please feel free to make one or contact one of our team members to assist you.
categories: # delete the categories that do not apply and keep at least one
  - Community
  - Technical
  - Science
tags: # add 1-4 lowercase tags that are relevant to your post, ex: r, python, genomics, workflows
  - announcement
---
Fred Hutch is currently evaluating its approach to supporting data-intensive research (often called data science). As part of this work, we ran a “customer survey” in January to help tell the story of the Coop and fredhutch.io. We sent the survey out to our community via Slack, email, and word of mouth, and our response rate wasn’t too shabby given the short turnaround. We had 53 respondents from a range of divisions and groups:

{{TABLE1}}

We asked three sets of questions to get information on (1) use of resources generated by Coop and fredhutch.io, (2) the impact/importance of Coop and fredhutch.io, and (3) general comments and thoughts. 

Use of Resources
“In the last 6 months, how often have you attended or engaged in the following Coop-supported activities?”

{{GRAPH1}}

[resources graph here]
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1SoHMkCNU0Etr8vk_eZ7A2bH9Kzky2rKn 

Impact 
“Indicate your level of agreement with the following statements”

{{GRAPH2}}

[statements graph here]
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1SoHMkCNU0Etr8vk_eZ7A2bH9Kzky2rKn 

Comments
We received dozens of comments from respondents about the impact of the Coop and fredhutch.io. A few of our favorites:

“Every code issue I've posted on the Slack channel has been responded to within a few hours, and usually solved in a day or two.”
“The Coop has been a fantastic resource for networking. I wish it had existed when I started at the Hutch over 7 years ago.”
“I have found a community of like-minded folks that care as much about programming as they do the data and getting results. I have attended multiple meetings where I was able to get interesting ideas that improved my approach to a problem and share my ideas to help others resolve their issues. By getting out of our silos, I believe my life as a Hutchian has been much improved.”
“I believe that an organization like The Coop is essential for the continued success of the center as a whole, as well as myself as an individual researcher.”
“The Coop is awesome! Love how it brings all the data/viz/informatics people together and also connects us with resources in the form of SciComp staff (who are amazing) + training opportunities. Thank you for your efforts.”

Underlying data

In the last 6 months, how often have you attended or engaged in the following Coop-supported activities?

{{TABLE2}}

Indicate your level of agreement with the following statements

{{TABLE3}}

