---
title: "Programming: The Search & My Experience as a Teen" 
author: Natalie Loh # the author value should match the 'title' value of your contributor file located here /gh-pages/_contributors. If you do not have a contributor file, please feel free to make one or contact one of our team members to assist you.
categories: # delete the categories that do not apply and keep at least one
  - Community
  - Technical
  - Science
tags: # add 1-4 lowercase tags that are relevant to your post, ex: r, python, genomics, workflows
  - programming
  - womeninstem
  - motivation
  - perserverance 
---
For the record, **I haven’t always loved coding,** and it's still not my favorite, but hear me out: </br>
Towards my later elementary school and early middle school years, my mom has been trying to put me in summer coding classes. If I was enrolled in a total of 4 weeks of summer camp per summer, meaning 4 different camps, 3 out of the 4 were my choice- whether it be cooking, art, or jump rope. However, the last one (you probably assumed), was the coding camp. At the time, I didn’t really acknowledge how much agency my mom was actually giving me. I was the first one to complain, I wanted another cooking camp or art camp instead. I probably got out of it for maybe just one summer, but that was about it. Being the adamant and loving mother my mom is, she insisted that I take a coding class. </br>
I don’t have much recollection of many coding camps that I participated in during those years, probably because I didn’t love any of them (haha!). However, during the summer going into 7th grade, I took a web development course at the Forest Ridge School. This was the first-time coding ever came to remotely enjoyable for me. I was having fun doing it. I’m not quite sure whether it was the wonderful teacher, or the fact that I was surrounded by a group of like-minded girls, but all together, we built a website all about the highlights of Seattle- restaurants, attractions, outdoor activities, etc. </br>
Now, fast forward a couple years, I’ve started high school. High school has opened up so many opportunities for me to try new things and explore where my true passions and interests lie. I’ve always been inspired by tech. When given a list of class electives, you’ll likely find me choosing: “Computer Technology”, “Applied Engineering”, or “Design and Production”. However, along with all those opportunities, came social pressure. High school becomes the point in time where students start their grind, and you're surrounded by unseen competition. Mostly everyone is fighting towards the same goal, college. You’re constantly surrounded by students who are doing cool things, big things, that you’re always trying to “compete” with or make sure you’re “up to standard.” </br>
You might wonder now, what does high school and social pressures have anything to do with my relationship with coding today? Well, within the past year, those two things (high school and social pressures) motivated me to look for opportunities and virtual extracurricular activities, which was how I discovered Girls Who Code. Why did I choose GWC? Because although I didn’t love coding all that much, I loved the idea of being able to work with other like-minded girls in tech, as I experienced in that summer web development course I took. By the end of the 2 week program, not only did the concept of coding grow on me, I had the opportunity to meet a whole new group of wonderful girls. I couldn’t believe it. After so many years of fighting my mom to get out of taking such coding classes, I 1) signed myself up for one and 2) enjoyed it. Later this led me to eventually enroll in other coding classes, such as this one at Fred Hutch. Part of what interested me was that fact that we would be learning about the cross-sections between coding and biology. </br>
Now that you’ve made it to the end of this post, I want to leave you with one message: always try new things. This means trying it over and over again. More than once, more than twice, maybe more than 3 times. And try it multiple times throughout different phases of life and age. Everyone’s interests change as they age, and if you don’t give yourself the opportunity to try again, you’re seriously missing out! Additionally, although in my experience, I began to enjoy coding a little more, my lesson could apply to any aspects of your life. Whether or not it’s the actual coding that intrigues you, another interest, or the chance to meet new people, always give yourself the chance to try new things, without worrying about anything that’s stopping you. </br>
I believe in you! </br>
Natalie 
